README update (#22)
microsoft/online-experimentation-metric-collections: README.md

# Online Experimentation Metric Collections

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > This repository is under active development and is subject to the [Azure AI Public Preview Terms - Online Experimentation](private-preview-terms.md).

Reviewer: Please keep the Private line for now until we are officially released

Author: Updated

Online experimentation enables you to evaluate feature variations in production. Quality evaluation requires setting up metrics that measure your application's performance, reliability, usage, and quality of engagement. The goal of this repository is to provide out-of-the-box metrics and custom metric samples that make it easy for you to get started with online experimentation.

This repository provides documentation and samples of online experimentation metrics and the required files for integrating with CI/CD.

## Features
Sample metric collections are organized into 5 directories:
| Folder | Purpose | Typical source telemetry |
| ------ | ------- | ------------------------ |
| [`genai-operational`](./genai-operational) | Out-of-box GenAI usage & cost metrics (token volume, latency, etc.). | Libraries adhere to [OpenTelemetry GenAI spans](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/gen-ai/gen-ai-spans/) |
| [`appinsights-webapi`](./appinsights-webapi) | Core request / dependency metrics for Web APIs instrumented. | [Application Insights autoinstrumentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/codeless-overview) |

> | [`azure-ai-agent-operational`](./azure-ai-agent-operational) | Metrics for Agent interactions (token usage, run latency, tool calls). | Libraries adhere to [Opentelemetry GenAI Agent Spans](https://github.com/microsoft/opentelemetry-semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/gen-ai/azure-ai-agent-spans.md) such as [Azure AI Agent Tracing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/agents/concepts/tracing#observe-an-agent) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`azure-ai-agent-operational`](./azure-ai-agent-operational) | Operational metrics for AI agent (token usage, run latency, tool calls). | Libraries adhere to [Opentelemetry GenAI Agent Spans](https://github.com/microsoft/opentelemetry-semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/gen-ai/azure-ai-agent-spans.md) such as [Azure AI Agent Tracing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/agents/concepts/tracing#observe-an-agent) |
```

> | [`azure-ai-evaluation`](./azure-ai-evaluation) | AI-assisted quality & safety scores powered by [evaluators](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/concepts/observability#what-are-evaluators). | [Azure AI evaluation continuous evaluation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/how-to/monitor-applications) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`azure-ai-evaluation`](./azure-ai-evaluation) | AI-assisted quality & safety scores powered by [evaluators](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/concepts/observability#what-are-evaluators). | [Azure AI agent continuous evaluation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/how-to/continuous-evaluation-agents) |
```

| [`custom`](./custom) | Sample metric definitions and code snippets to log custom events. | Any event sent to `AppEvents_CL` |

## Getting Started

> To generate metrics with online experimentation, you must enable the feature in your Azure App Configuration resource. See [Get Started: Run Online Experimentations (Preview) in App Configuration](https://aka.ms/exp/public/TODO) for full setup instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate metrics with online experimentation, you must enable the feature in your Azure App Configuration resource. See [Get Started: Run Online Experimentations (Preview) in App Configuration](https://aka.ms/exp3p/appconfig) for full setup instructions.
```

> Each metric set has its own prerequisites; refer to the corresponding README under each directory for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each metric collection has its own prerequisites; refer to the corresponding README under each directory for details.
```
